/* Lab 5 - Developing multi-threaded applications - Observations and Questions */

$ make
gcc -g -o threadHello_step1 threadHello_step1.c -Wall -pthread
gcc -g -o threadHelloFixed_step1_Fixed threadHelloFixed_step1_Fixed.c -Wall -pthread


threadHello_step1.c -> Observations and Questions

Q1. Explain what happens when you run this threadHello.c program; can you list how many threads are 
	created and what values of i are passed? Do you get the same result if you run it multiple times? What if 
	you are also running some other demanding processes (e.g., compiling a big program, playing a Flash 
	game on a website, or watching streaming video) when you run this program? 
	
	A1. When I ran threadHello.c program it lists out 10 threads with negative values and the iteration for it are all 0. The first statement returns 'Thread 0 returned',
		then follow by 'Hello from thread -807492032 with iteration 0', the it starts again with the 'hello' statement with the following iteration
		all 0's. Then it run backs to the statement 'Thread 1 returned' in numerical order. After running the program again the results are somewhat different with the statements
		but they are all still with negative thread and the same iteration of 0's. Each of the 10 threads executes the function go(). The main thread then waits for each of these 
		threads to end using pthread_join() before it continues. On multiple runs, I get different outputs and this is because the threads will be scheduled differently in each run. 
		And since the address of i is passed to the go() function, it may be because the go() function is incremented first before the newly created thread has been executed throught the 
		printf() function. Which results in runs with multiple threads that print out the same iteration value. If other demanding programs are run with this program, the output will still be different
		everytime its run.
 
Q2. The function go() has the parameter arg passed a local variable. Are these variables per-thread or 
	shared state? Where does the compiler store these variables’ states? 
	
	A2. The function go() that has the parameter arg passed a local variable is variable on the stack, so a copy
		is created for each thread. But in the given code, the value in arg is the address of the variable i. Therefore,
		in the given code the arg pointer points to the same location for all threads.
 
Q3. The main() has local variable i. Is this variable per-thread or shared state? Where does the compiler 
	store this variable? 
	
	A3. The variable i in main() is a shared state. There is only one copy and it is a stack variable which goes
		out of scope when the main() function ends.
 
Q4.	Write down your observations. You probably have seen that there is a bug in the program, where 
	threads may print same values of i. Why? 
	
	A4. The bug is due to the fact that the threads may be scheduled in any order. When the hello message is printed, the dereferencing
		of the arg pointer gives the value since it points to variable in the main() function. Therefore the iteration number is wrongly 
		printed. Any of the threads may end up printing a wrong value for the iteration.
